In the context of exoplanet hunts, direct imaging offers unique access to young and massive planets orbiting at large separation from their host star. Thanks to the latest instrumental achievements it is now reaching a turning point. However, observing exoplanets using 8-m class ground-based telescopes is a very challenging task. The main difficulties are the small angular separation between the potential companions and its host star (a few hundred of milli-arcseconds) and the huge difference in brightness between the them (the star is a few million brighter than the planet in the near infrared). Dedicated instruments are build to tackle this high-resolution and high-contrast challenge by using the combination of adaptive optics and coronagraphy. The adaptive optics recovers a resolution close to the diffraction limit of the telescope by correcting for the degradation induced by the atmospheric turbulence. The coronagraph is an optical device which suppresses as much light coming from the host star while preserving lights from potential close companions. The following video, prepared by the NASA Exoplanet Exploration Program, explains in simple terms the important role of adaptive optics and coronagraphy for high-contrast imaging.  

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/SpzeS7KBGkw?rel=0" frameborder="0" allow="autoplay; encrypted-media" allowfullscreen></iframe>
<br><br>

Another essential piece for high-contrast imaging of exoplanets is the post-processing techniques applied to the data. The post-processing techniques rely on the presence of a diversity in the data obtained thanks to specific observation modes (such as pupil tracking or simultaneaous multispectral imaging, see the sub-challenges section below). This diversity is used to disentangle the residual starlight (not blocked by the coronagraph) from the potential companions. Indeed the starlight residuals form a speckle field consituted of quasi-statics speckles of the same angular size and shape than the planetary signal and that are often brighter than the planetary companions (more than a few hundred times brighter). This last post-processing step is what ultimately pushes the detection limits of instruments. 

## Objectives

A multitude of image processing algorithms and pipelines for processing high contrast imaging data have been developed in the past thirteen years. For instance, [Pueyo (2018)](https://link.springer.com/referenceworkentry/10.1007/978-3-319-30648-3_10-1) offers an ample discussion on the exoplanet detection algorithms proposed in the literature. The goal of this challenge is not only to compare, in a fair and robust way, existing post-processing algorithms but to spark new collaborations/ideas, share knowledge, and ultimately maximize the scientific return of existing and future near-infrared high-contrast imaging instruments.

Computer science and machine learning fields have a long tradition of conducting data challenges and competitions. Repositories of benchmark (curated) datasets are an integral part of the machine learning field. We want to integrate these practices to the field of high-contrast imaging. Thanks to this initiative, the process of testing new algorithms will be much straightforward and robust in the future, once the community adopts the standard metrics (with their open-source implementations) and the benchmark library resulting from this challenge.  

## Timeline

Our goal is to launch this data challenge in the beginning of 2019. 
As part of this data challenge, we are considering the organization of a workshop on image processing for exoplanet direct imaging that could, at the same time, host a hackathon session for the participants. Please contact the organizers if you have any questions, suggestions or if you are willing to provide support in this initiative. 


